# About

This directory contains all code that is required to generate results by using the data found in the *Data* directory. A detailed description of each file is found below.

## Shell

### Download.sh
This script downloads all of the required data files to the *Data* direcory and places them in the appropriate subdirectory. This includes 6 sample files, as well as reference genome and gene annotation for *Mycobacterium tuberculosis CDC1551*. 
Note: This script should be run from the *Data* directory.

### Alignment.sh
This script uses bowtie2 to align the reads from the RNA-Seq data provided by the original study to the reference genome of *M. tuberculosis CDC1551* downloaded from Ensembl Bacteria. The alginment produces SAM-files which are later used to generate a count matrix.
Note: This script should be run from the *Data* directory.

### HTSeq_count_auto.sh
This script generates a count matrix from the SAM files generated by **Alignment.sh** .and the gene annotation file for *M. tuberculosis CDC1551*. This is done by using the inbuilt function 'htseq-count' from the terminal, and treating it as a black box. The idea is to compare the results yielded by the **DESeq2.R** script when this alternative count matrix is used and when the count matrix generated by the manually written **HTSeq_count.py** is used.
Note: This script should be run from the *Intermediate* directory.

## Python

### HTSeq_count.py
This script generates a count matrix from the SAM files generated by **Alignment.sh** .and the gene annotation file for *M. tuberculosis CDC1551*. This is done through the use of the HTSeq Python package. The count matrix will be used for differential expression analysis.
Note: This script should be run from the *Intermediate* directory.

### Extract_genes.py
This script extracts a list of gene names from the gene annoatation file for *M. tuberculosis CDC1551*. This list will be used to annotate the count matrix by the **DESeq2.R** script.
Note: This script should be run from the *Intermediate* directory.

## R 

### DESeq2.R
This script uses DESeq2 to perform differential expression analysis of the genes, taking the count matrix and the list of gene names as input and reurning values for Benjamini Hochberg adusted p-values and log fold change for each gene. A volcano plot is also generated for visualization purposes.
Note: This script should be run from the *Results* directory.
